# Laptop

## 1. Definition

1. Laptop is a small, portable personal computer (PC). Laptops typically have a clamshell form factor with a flat-panel screen on the inside of the upper lid and an alphanumeric keyboard and pointing device on the inside of the lower lid. Most of the computer's internal hardware is fitted inside the lower lid enclosure under the keyboard, although many modern laptops have a built-in webcam at the top of the screen, and some even feature a touchscreen display.
2. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laptop

## 2. Types of laptops

1. Smaller and larger laptops

    There were in the past a number of marketing categories for smaller and larger laptop computers; these included "notebook" and "subnotebook" models, low cost "netbooks", and "ultra-mobile PCs"
2. Convertible, hybrid, 2-in-1

    Convertibles are devices with the ability to conceal a hardware keyboard. Keyboards on such devices can be flipped, rotated, or slid behind the back of the chassis, thus transforming from a laptop into a tablet.
3. Rugged laptop

    A rugged laptop is designed to reliably operate in harsh usage conditions such as strong vibrations, extreme temperatures, and wet or dusty environments. Rugged laptops are bulkier, heavier, and much more expensive than regular laptops.
## 3. Hardware
1. The basic components of laptops function identically to their desktop counterparts. Traditionally they were miniaturized and adapted to mobile use, The design restrictions on power, size, and cooling of laptops limit the maximum performance of laptop parts compared to that of desktop components

2. In general, laptop components are not intended to be replaceable or upgradable by the end-user, except for components that can be detached; in the past, batteries and optical drives were commonly exchangeable.

    * motherboard

        https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motherboard
    * hard disk

        https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hard_disk_drive
    * sound cards
    * RAM
    * CPU
    * battery

## 4. Top three laptop manufacturers.
* Samsung
* Asus
* Acer

